Authenticity
============
_Written on 2021-08-07_

I was focused on learning about body language in March of this year, and I ended up on [a video from the excellent Charisma On Command Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T5_KFy6qy-A) that breaks down why the actor Chris Hemsworth is so popular with his coworkers. The video provides several high-quality insights, but the one that stuck with me was the following: most people, when faced with the choice of whether or not to do a thing, consider three options:

1. Do the thing and own it (tell others about it)
2. Don't do the thing
3. Do the thing, but hide it

The video asserts that Chris Hemsworth has eliminated the third option - he only consider the first two choices - and this is a source of power for him. I was reminded of Jordan Peterson's maxim, "Never lie," and I decided to experiment with implementing it in my life. It's nearly five months after I launched this campaign, and the results have been profound. In this essay, I'll try to explain why I can't go back to the third option by breaking down what happened and why I think this simple strategy was so transformative.

What happened
-------------
Some quick background before I go to the examples: I went on [a 10-day seduction workshop in Kiev](https://theeurotour.com/) this May with one of my seduction heroes, James Marshall. If "seduction" inspires a negative reaction in you, see [this essay](./what-seduction-means-to-me.md) for my thoughts on what seduction means to me and why I value it so highly.

Back to key examples of what happened when I eliminated the third option from my life:

* We were asked on the workshop if we'd agree to be videotaped for a documentary the coaches were making. Most men refused on account of the stigma associated with seduction, but I realized that if I were okay doing the workshop then I should be okay with the world knowing I was doing the workshop. I agreed to the videotaping, and as a result now have all the material documented in video for review when I need.
* I was in a cafe in Tulum before my workshop when a pretty girl in a purple dress sat down. I approached her, and discovered that we had a very compatible vibe. We had a long chat that afternoon, and I told her that I was going for a seduction workshop the following week. She was both non-judgmental and fascinated; we ended up having a deep discussion about seduction, masculinity, and self improvement. We had such a great connection that she flew to visit me in Mexico City.
* I prefer to be the dominant in the bedroom, and this same girl was very active. I told her that I felt the activeness but didn't enjoy it, and she revealed that she'd actually been working on embodying the passive, feminine, receiver energy. We worked together to help her embody it, and had way more enjoyable sex (as well as a deepened connection) as a result.
* With the same girl, I told her that I feel I need open relationships with multiple women. She revealed that she'd been feeling the same and said, "I feel like I have too much love to give [to restrict myself to one person]," echoing a sentiment I've felt. We had a genuine conversation about who else we were seeing, which deepened our connection even more and challenged me to work on the jealousy insecurity that came up as she told me about another guy she's seeing.
* Sex for me is an opportunity to have a deeper connection with someone I like, so I'm always trying to get better at it. I'd been reading a book for men seeking to better themselves in the bedroom, and I'd planned to read it on the plane back from my workshop. I was unexpectedly transferred to a middle seat on the plane, and kept my book proudly open on my lap even as chapter titles like "Multiple Orgasms" paged past in large font. Far from shaming me, neither of my fellow passengers said anything; I caught them sneaking glances at my book, and I definitely made their day more interesting.
* In the baggage claim after the same flight, I was feeling charged up and felt like dancing. I put on my headphones, switched Spotify to [Tool's "Vicarious"](https://open.spotify.com/track/65ShmiE5aLBdcIGr7tHX35?si=baf81348c14e4c44), and rocked out - complete with headbanging and dancing - as the baffled rest of the plane looked on. I felt a desire to hide for the first 30 seconds, but the power shifted and I began to enjoy it after as I realized that their days were objectively more interesting for having me in it.
* I've been with multiple girls who would take out a cigarette and ask, "Is it okay if I smoke?" I don't like smoking, and told them, "I'm not a big fan." They would put away the cigarette, and reveal that they think it's a bad habit they're trying to break. I didn't have to be around smoking, and we had a more honest connection.
* I was in a work call with one of our vendors and he asked what my workshop was about. I was tempted to give the cop-out, "It was a meditation workshop," but told him the truth. He revealed that before he got married, he too had been reading some books about pickup due to a bad breakup he'd had.
* In the same conversation, I told him how therapy (something I'd once been ashamed of) had transformed my outlook on life. He opened up about some personal issues he'd been struggling with, and the therapy he was using to try and resolve them. This was the second time I'd had a call with him, but we'd already shared information that one normally reserves for a close friend.
* I've recently had my first experiences with psilocybin mushrooms, and they were highly positive. I'm very interested in exploring more, but didn't know where to get them. I told a girl about my experience on a date, and she told me that she knew where to get them. My honesty led to new experiences.
* As I was writing this essay, I saw a pair of attractive girls walk past. I hesitated for a minute, then followed my desire to run after them and talk to them. They told me they were lesbians dating, but were flattered and turned out to be friendly with good vibes. We chatted about startups, and they invited me to a startup networking event that Thursday. This was just what I needed: my cofounder and I have been feeling fairly alone on our startup journey for the past few months.

Why I can't go back
--------------------
The common theme in all of these examples is: I had the choice to hide beyond comfortable lies, but chose to project my truth despite the discomfort and was rewarded for it - often with deeper connections or feelings of freedom. There is _so_ much we don't know about other people, so the assumptions I'd been projecting about how they'd react were often wrong. In many cases, it made others feel more comfortable telling me their own less-than-perfect truths.

In doing this experiment, I viscerally felt the wisdom that so many grandmothers know: people don't have the power to hurt you except what you allow. Even if somebody were to take issue with my honesty, what could they do? They could _try_ to shame me, but then I'd simply say, "I guess we have different truths." I would reject the shame.

So if I'd been giving people the power to hurt me, what happened when I stopped? I retained the power, and as a result felt more powerful - more _agentive_. In jiu jitsu, someone is weak when their head and hips are pointed in different connections and strong when everything is in alignment.  Authenticity - completely aligning your beliefs and your actions - is the same for your personality. When what you do corresponds exactly to what you believe, there is no chink in the armor - no "gotcha" moment - that people can use to embarrass you. But even beyond the feelings of power, I found three additional benefits to eliminating that third "do it but hide it" option.

### Training Adaptability
First, authentically expressing who you are _does_ risk rejection and discomfort which trains your ability to handle these emotions. While my experiences were mostly pleasant beyond anything I would have expected, I was feeling good with a girl on a first date and I tried to kiss her by placing a single finger under her chin to turn her head towards me. Though I've successfully done the same with plenty of other women, this girl's eyes got wide as she stepped back asked me why I was invading her personal space. Confused and flustered, I of course also stepped back and apologized. In later discussion when I told her that the reason I did this was because I was feeling good energy and wanted to kiss her, she told me:

"Hi. Good energy is not enough for a kiss.  why did you decide that I would reciprocate the kiss?  and why do you violate the personal boundaries of another person?  you need to have respect for the person and not just do whatever you want.  I don’t kiss everyone I meet, it doesn’t interest me.  I thought you were conscious, not one of those who are only fond of netflix (as you put it).  you disappointed me."

I won't lie: this stung. I felt dirty, like I was some creepy guy who had sexually assaulted her. If I hadn't had the reference experiences of every girl before her, I would have even believed it. Only by working through those emotions was I able to realize a) I'd only tried to kiss her, and in very gentle way as well and b) I had immediately pulled back when she didn't like it (which was in fact respecting her boundaries, contrary to her assertion that I wasn't). Her reaction was came from her own history and beliefs about the situation, and it turned out that our truths were very much not compatible.

This growth opportunity only came from my authenticity in going for the kiss: if I'd stayed behind my comfortable, protective shell, I wouldn't have had the opportunity to experience those negative emotions and work through them. Moreover, it would have taken me longer to discover that we are, in fact, very much not compatible.

### Filtering
The second benefit is related to what I experienced with this girl: some people won't resonate with your truth, and that's okay. By boldly projecting who you are, the people who don't resonate will drop out of your life immediately. Rather than wasting time with people that you don't like or who don't like you, you will be selecting for the people where the potential for a deep connection is possible. In the words of [Mark Manson in "Models"](https://www.amazon.com/Models-Attract-Women-Through-Honesty/dp/1463750358), those who don't like you, really won't like you. But those who like you will _really_ like you.

### Like Attracts Like
The third benefit is that your genuineness will attract other genuine people. I believe the world is a mirror, reflecting the energy you put out. When you put out people-pleasing energy, covering your truth to please those around you, you attract other people-pleasers because you are comfortable around each other. When you start putting out authentic energy even when it's difficult, other authentic people will recognize it and be drawn in. 

Final Thoughts
--------------
I won't lie: taking the path of eliminating the third option is difficult. Every time I'm at a crossroads where expressing my truth could lead to social disapproval, I feel pressure to agree with the herd. Each time, I have to overcome the desire to avoid short-term pain by putting my faith in the long-term optimization. Sometimes I stumble. But, like a muscle, I'm getting stronger every time I choose to exercise authenticity. And just like exercising a muscle, the pain often isn't as bad as the fear beforehand would have you believe. If you've not tried this same experiment, give it a go for a month and see what happens for you. 
