---
title: "What I Want: October 2024"
---

_Written on 2024-10-03_

I'm at an inflection point in life, and I've been reflecting recently on what's important to me. Kevin as of October 3rd, 2024, wants this:

- **A family of my own that feels warm, nurturing, and full of light.** It's important to me that my future partner embodies self-awareness, patience, kindness, positivity, and warmth, so that we can pass it down to our children. In my mind's eye, I see a house that oscillates between tranquility and fun domestic chaos with its laughter & screaming kids.
- **A friend group that inspires me.** Since the start of 2023, I've been actively working on building a social circle. I've since found a group of friends who I enjoy being with, and who inspire me. This has me feeling socially well-connected for the first time in my life. I believe it's imperative for me to retain this connectedness, for my mental well-being the benefit of those who depend on me.
- **Financial freedom.** I haven't experienced the truly fancy things in life (sports cars, flying private, yachts, etc.), but I got a small taster (particularly through my early work at Palantir). I've stayed in fancy hotels, ate more fancy dinners than I can count, gone to lavish company parties, driven a Mercedes, and even flown first class once. I'd describe these things as... cool. They were nice, but after a while they start to become normal and blur together like anything else. These days, I find myself happy with not much: a well-made cup of specialty coffee, a cool bouldering route, a guitar jam session, playing with a dog, or hanging out with people I like. I'd like to provide my family a good house in a good neighborhood, close to schools and activities, and allow myself and/or my wife the freedom to spend lots of time with our kids.
- **A strong, healthy body via good gyms in close proximity.** I've seen how investing in my own physical health yields dividends in my energy, mental well-being, and ability to interact with the world. I want to keep investing, and live a long, high-quality life. Ease-of-access greatly affects how likely I am to enjoy & engage in physical activity, so I'd like to have good weightlifting and climbing gyms nearby.
- **A calm, positive mind.** I found myself burnt-out, anxious, and angry in the aftermath of my startup. These emotions provided the impulse that launched me into exploring Mickey Singer's books, Buddhism, meditation, surrender, positivity, and gratitude. Practicing these qualities greatly improved my mental well-being, and I'd like to continue to seeing where this path leads.
- **A positive impact on those around me:** I lived the first 32 years of my life focusing on what I didn't have, and how to get it. I was scarcity-oriented, and felt I was in constant tension with the universe to fight for what I felt I needed. I have since switched to a karmic, "give first, and trust you'll get what you need" mindset. This has been a flat upgrade for my life: I feel better about myself, and the people around me like me better. I want to keep continuing down this giving path.
- **Nature in proximity.** This summer I learned the power of morning walks, sometimes lying on the grass in a park to meditate or contemplate life. I'd like to have this freely available to me always.
- **Location stability + a dog.** I love animals, yet I've always been transitory through the places I've lived. I'd enjoy knowing that I'm going to be in a place for a long period of time, so that I can have a doggo.
- **Time to explore curiosity.** I've always had nine million things I want to dive into, but have been limited by time. Going along with financial freedom, I'd like the spare time to follow where my curiosity wills.
